The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed. The desert was the
apotheosis of all deserts, huge, standing to the sky for what might have been parsecs in all directions.
White; blinding; waterless; without feature save for the faint, cloudy haze of the mountains which
sketched themselves on the horizon and the devil-grass which brought sweet dreams, nightmares,
death. An occasional tombstone sign pointed the way, for once the drifted track that cut its way
through the thick crust of alkali had been a highway and coaches had followed it. The world had
moved on since then. The world had emptied.
The gunslinger walked stolidly, not hurrying, not loafing. A hide waterbag was slung around his
middle like a bloated sausage. It was almost full. He had progressed through the khef over many
years, and had reached the fifth level. At the seventh or eighth, he would not have been thirsty; he
could have watched own body dehydrate with clinical, detached attention, watering its crevices and
dark inner hollows only when his logic told him it must be done. He was not seventh or eighth. He
was fifth. So he was thirsty, although he had no particular urge to drink. In a vague way, all this
pleased him. It was romantic. Below the waterbag were his guns, finely weighted to his hand. The
two belts crisscrossed above his crotch. The holsters were oiled too deeply for even this Philistine
sun to crack. The stocks of the guns were sandalwood, yellow and finely grained. The holsters were
tied down with rawhide cord, and they swung heavily against his hips. The brass casings of the
cartridges looped into the gun belts twinkled and flashed and heliographed in the sun. The leather
made subtle creaking noises. The guns themselves made no noise. They had spilled blood. There was
no need to make noise in the sterility of the desert His clothes were the no-color of rain or dust. His
shirt was open at the throat, with a rawhide thong dangling loosely in hand-punched eyelets. His pants
were seam-stretched dungarees. He breasted a gently rising dune (although there was no sand here;
the desert was hardpan, and even the harsh winds that blew when dark came raised only an
aggravating harsh dust like scouring powder) and saw the kicked remains of a tiny campfire on the lee
side, the side which the sun would quit earliest. Small signs like this, once more affirming the man in
black’s essential humanity, never failed to please him. His lips stretched in the pitted, flaked remains
of his face. He squatted. He had burned the devil-grass, of course. It was the only thing out here that
would burn. It burned with a greasy, flat light, and it burned slow. Border dwellers had told him that
devils lived even in the flames. They burned it but would not look into the light. They said the devils
hypnotized, beckoned, would eventually draw the one who looked into the fires. And the next man
foolish enough to look into the fire might see you..